Intelligent Automation, Inc. (IAI) is a technology innovation company that specializes in providing advanced technology solutions and R&D services to federal agencies, and corporations throughout the United States.

Research and Development

IAI’s value to its customers is its unique ability to solve challenging science and technology problems, by leveraging its agile R&D processes, subject matter experts, multi-disciplinary collaborative environment, and its substantial intellectual property portfolio. IAI excels in its ability to innovate, and in developing concepts into market-focused products and customer-driven solutions.

IAI’s core areas of research and development expertise include Air Traffic Management, Big Data and Social Media Analytics, Control and Signal Processing, Cyber Security, Education and Training Technologies, Health Technologies, Modeling and Simulation, Networks and Communications, Robotics, and Sensor Systems.

Our research is supported by a cross-disciplinary team of over 160 research scientists and engineers. More than 75% of IAI’s technical staff have advanced degrees and 50% of them hold Doctoral Degrees.

Products

IAI leverages R&D programs to develop products and bring them to market. IAI’s CybelePro® is an Intelligent Agent Framework licensed by most NASA laboratories and leading aerospace companies for Air Traffic Management applications. IAI’s Gradations® is a web-based Intelligent Tutor licensed to USA today to improve literacy. IAI licensed its patented BulletTrax-3D bullet identification and matching technology to Forensic Technologies, Inc.

In 2013, IAI announced the release to two new product lines. The ARGUS™ family of physical security products is a perimeter security system consisting of networked wireless sensors that form a protective, invisible trip wire for enhanced situational awareness. IAI’s RFnest™ product is a full mesh scalable channel emulator for test and evaluation of new wireless technologies in a laboratory environment, enabling accelerated development, maturation, and fielding of new radios, protocols, and network solutions. Products in cyber security, social media analytics, and modeling and simulation are planned for 2015.

Clients & Partners

IAI is privileged to work with a group of extraordinary federal, corporate, and university clients and partners. Our federal customers include the Department of Defense, National Aeronautics and Space Agency (NASA), National Institutes of Health, Department of Homeland Security, National Institute of Justice, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and Department of Education. Our corporate partners include BAE Systems, Boeing, Exelis, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, and Raytheon. IAI also has active relationships with more than 50 top universities.

Working directly with its customer or through collaborations with industry leaders, IAI’s technologies have been transitioned into several key programs. Program transition examples include: the Future Combat Systems Program, NAVEODTECHDIV AEODRS Program, Joint Service Small Arms Program, NASA ECOSAR Program, NASA Airspace Concept Evaluation System, Joint Strike Fighter Program, Centers for Disease Control CIMS Program, and NAVAIR Scalable Network Access Protocol Program.

IAI has been recognized by our customers and peers for excellence, commitment to deliver the highest quality results and exceed expectations. IAI is the recipient of the National Tibbetts Awards and Administrator’s Awards from U.S. Small Business Administration, the Northrop Grumman Information Systems Supplier Excellence Award, Raytheon Supplier of the Year, and NASA’s space act software release award for contributions to the Airspace Concept Evaluation System.

Contract Vehicles

IAI is an active participant in several federal Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract vehicles including Air Force ACT, Army GTACS, TAOSS, and TESTLA; FAA e-FAST and SE2020 SIR and SIR2; NASA GESS 3 and LITES; and Navy Seaport-E and Medical Omnibus III.

History

IAI is a women owned small business and was founded in 1987 by Drs. Leonard Haynes and Jackie Haynes. Today, IAI is led by Dr. Vikram Manikonda, its President and CEO. Since its founding, IAI has enjoyed consistent growth and today is a mature small business headquartered in Rockville MD with offices in Rome NY, Hampton VA and Orlando FL. IAI serves its stakeholders by consistently delivering innovative, customer-focused solutions, by establishing and sustaining enduring relationships with our clients and partners, and by maintaining an environment in which staff members can fulfill their professional and personal objectives.